Name- Madhusmita Gochhait
Email ŌĆō madhusmita.gochhait@gmail.com
Phone - +14089815987	                                     
   



Executive Profile

Experienced hands-on engineering leader with 20 years of proven expertise in Infrastructure, DevOps, SRE, and Cybersecurity Operations. Demonstrated success in designing and implementing large-scale, highly available, and secured platform solutions, managing vulnerability remediation programs and achieving various security certifications including SOC 2 Type 2 and FedRAMP.



Professional Experience

ADT Inc (June 2023 - Present)
Senior Manager,  Platform Engineering

’āś	Architected scalable, highly available AWS systems leveraging EC2, S3, RDS, Lambda, ECS, and EKS 
’āś	Created roadmaps and planning for end-to-end build, scale, and management of the infrastructure required to operate ADT Multifamily applications and devices.
’āś	Integrated DevSecOps practices into CI/CD pipelines to enforce cybersecurity and compliance during build and deploy phases .
’āś	Oversaw detection and remediation of security vulnerabilities, coordinating with teams to ensure timely patching and mitigation .
’āś	 Proficient in engineering and enterprise toolchains including Jira, SFDC, Confluence, and Git-based workflows.
’āś	Directed SOC 2 Type 2 compliance efforts, ensuring security controls across infrastructure and application layers.
’āś	Integrated enterprise cybersecurity tools including Palo Alto Prisma Cloud and XDR agents for threat detection and prevention.
’āś	Implemented security guardrails for internal applications, including DDoS protection using AWS Shield and WAF.
’āś	Led incident response processes, defined RTO/RPO, and coordinated cross-functional for resolution of P0/P1 production issues.
’āś	Automated disaster recovery processes for critical applications, reducing recovery time and enhancing business continuity.
’āś	 Implemented end-to-end observability with AWS CloudWatch, Dynatrace, and custom metrics dashboards to reduce MTTD/MTTR.
’āś	Developed internal SMEs through technical mentoring, enabling deep root cause analysis and faster issue resolution.


Skyhigh Security / McAfee LLC (June 2018- June 2023)
Senior Manager 
’āś	Infrastructure and on-call support, product deployment , security and incident response and resolution for multiple applications.
’āś	Led achievement of security compliance certifications including SOC 2 Type 2 and FedRAMP
’āś	Monitored security posture and infrastructure health 24x7x365 with global support team .
’āś	Provided technical leadership on various areas of large-scale cloud infrastructure with a focus on resilience and high availability of business-critical applications. 
’āś	Significant contribution in cloud cost optimization  by continuous infra monitoring and setup alerts to minimize underutilized resources resulting in reducing costs by 25% and improving system performance by 30%.
’āś	Directed , architected and implemented a centralized monitoring and alerting framework using Prometheus and Grafana and Victoria metrics.
’āś	Defined Incident response and management process and drove adoption across the organization. 
’āś	Led achievement of security compliance certifications including SOC 2 Type 2 and FedRAMP.
’āś	Oversaw the detection and remediation process of security vulnerabilities across our infrastructure.
’āś	Hands-on expertise with cybersecurity tools including Qualys and Nessus for vulnerability scanning and assessment
’āś	Collaborated with Customer Support, Operations and customers to resolve issues and escalations and helped drive down MTTR.
’āś	Defined incident response and management processes and drove adoption across the organization
Juniper Networks (September 2015 ŌĆö October 2016 )
Lead DevOps Engineer 

’āś	Led a team focused on managing and support of CentOS based Linux development servers. 
’āś	Worked as a Monitoring platform Lead for the cloud CPE solution. 
’āś	Managed Server configuration through SaltStack automation Framework. 
’āś	Deploying software services such as Apache, MySQL database clusters in a high availability (in HAProxy). 
’āś	Involved in Scripting (Shell/bash, Python) and building required automation tools on an adhoc basis. 
’āś	Setup of Icinga cluster for services and infrastructure monitoring. 
’āś	Developed, setup and administration of Icinga, Ganglia, webalizer, Newrelic tools for end-to-end servers and application monitoring. 
’āś	Developed and automated Icinga Autodiscover framework for new nodes addition in the cluster /network. 
’āś	Troubleshooting environment issues for the entire platform. 
’āś	On Call Production support and monitoring. 

Prior Roles & Responsibilities

’āś	Senior DevOps Consultant at ETrade Inc
June 2014 ŌĆö August 2015 

’āś	Senior DevOps Consultant at Apple Inc.
January 2012 ŌĆö June 2014

’āś	Technical Analyst at Infosys Technologies Limited
February 2006 ŌĆö January 2012


Technology Exposure:

Cloud Computing	 AWS, GCP
DevOps/DevSecOps tools	 CI/CD with Bitbucket /Jenkins, GitLab, Docker, Kubernetes, SonarQube, Qualys,Nessus, HAProxy, Niginx, Apache httpd , Identity and Access Management( IAM) using Okta, Duo , YubiKey,Google Auth, OpenSSL
Databases	 Postgres,MySql ,Oracle , Cassandra , Redis, elasticsearch, DynamoDB, InfluxDB
IAC( Infrastructure As Code)	 AWS Cloudformation, Terraform
Logging,Monitoring & Alerting	Dynatrace, AWS CloudWatch, Splunk,Ichinga,New Relic,Nagios,Prometheus,Grafana,ELK Stack, Victoria Metrics
Change Management tools	  GIT,SVN 
Operating System	 Linux ( CentOS , Red Hat, Ubuntu, Amazon Linux ), macOS, Windows
Scripting Languages	 Bash/shell scripting , Python ,Ruby 



Education & Certifications
’āś	Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication
Orissa Engineering College 2001-2005

’āś	Executive leadership program (LEAD) by Stanford Graduate School of Business



Certifications

’āś	AWS Solutions Architect Associate
’āś	AWS AI Associate
’āś	Red Hat certified Engineer
’āś	Red Hat certified System Engineer


